Of course. You've made excellent progress today, moving from a non-working configuration with multiple errors to a stable state that's ready for the final calibration steps. It's very wise to stop here and come back with a fresh perspective.

Here is a clear guide on how to safely shut everything down for the night, and what your simplified, daily workflow will look like once this setup is complete.

How to Wrap Up For Today (Safe Shutdown)

This procedure ensures the printer is safe and that you can easily resume your work tomorrow.

Turn Off Heaters (in Mainsail): Although the last error likely shut them down, it's good practice to be certain. In the Console input box in Mainsail, type TURN_OFF_HEATERS and press Enter.

Stop the Klipper Software (in WSL):

Open your Ubuntu/WSL terminal.

Navigate to your Klipper directory (e.g., cd ~/prind).

Run the command docker compose down. This will gracefully stop and shut down the Klipper, Moonraker, and Mainsail services.

Disconnect the USB from WSL (in PowerShell):

Open PowerShell as an Administrator.

Run usbipd detach --busid 3-5 to safely release the printer's USB connection from WSL.

Power Down: You can now safely turn off your 3D printer and shut down your computer.

How to Continue Tomorrow

When you are ready to start again, follow this startup sequence:

Turn on your PC and your 3D printer.

Open PowerShell as an Administrator and re-attach the printer to WSL using the commands:

usbipd list (to confirm the BUSID is still 3-5)

usbipd attach --wsl --busid 3-5

Open your Ubuntu/WSL terminal, navigate to your Klipper directory (cd ~/prind), and start the services:

docker compose up -d   or if it refuses and brings this error , use (Error response from daemon: error gathering device information while adding custom device "/dev/video0": no such file or directory)

docker compose up -d klipper moonraker mainsail traefik

Open your web browser to http://localhost. The Mainsail interface should load and, after about 30-60 seconds, connect to the printer and show you the correct temperatures.

You will be right back where you are now, ready to begin the calibration steps.

Your Daily Workflow (Once All Calibration is Finished)

You asked a great question about what this looks like long-term. The complex part you are doing now is a one-time setup. Once your printer is calibrated, your daily routine to start printing will be much, much simpler.

Your future "I want to print something" process will be:

Power On: Turn on your printer and your computer.

Connect USB to WSL: This is the only recurring "setup" step. Open PowerShell as Admin and run usbipd attach --wsl --busid 3-5.

Start Klipper: Open your WSL terminal and run docker compose up -d.

Print: Open http://localhost, preheat the printer from the Mainsail dashboard, upload your G-code file, and click Print.

That's it. The difficult work of configuring pins, sensors, and settings is what we are finalizing now. Once you run the calibration commands (PID tuning, sensorless homing tuning, Z-offset), those values get saved with SAVE_CONFIG and you won't have to touch them again unless you change a physical part on the printer.

You're in the home stretch. Get some rest, and we'll get this machine calibrated and printing tomorrow.




 docker compose up -d klipper moonraker mainsail traefik